RESOLUTION NO. 26-27 
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE RESILIENT SCHOOLS PROPOSAL
WHEREAS, the mission of the Boulder Valley School District (“BVSD” or “School 
District”) is to create challenging, meaningful and engaging learning opportunities so 
that all children thrive and are prepared for successful, civically engaged lives.
WHEREAS, the BVSD Board of Education (“Board”) is authorized by C.R.S. § 
22-32-110(1)(l) to determine which schools of the School District shall be operated and 
maintained and by C.R.S. § 22-32-110(1)(m) to set the attendance boundaries of each 
school in the district.
WHEREAS, Board Policy FA/FB states that it is the goal of the Board to provide and 
maintain the number of facilities needed to support enrollment and educational 
programs and to plan facilities that will:
1.  Prioritize sustainability, integrate energy eﬃciency, and will be conducive to
optimal teaching, learning, and working.
2.  Be appropriately located to provide optimal use during the life of the facility. 
3.  Provide equitable instructional opportunities for all students. 
4.  Reﬂect the value placed on instruction by the School District community. 
5.  Ensure that the planning process clearly identiﬁes facility requirements with
enough lead time to plan, fund, build, or renovate facilities to meet a 
validated need.
6.  Ensure that the planning process addresses all educational and educational
support facility requirements.
WHEREAS, the population of school-aged children in BVSD has declined by 3,675 
students since 2017, and is anticipated to decline by another 1,706 students by 2030.
WHEREAS, the Board-appointed Long Range Advisory Committee (LRAC) considered 
two metrics to assess the impacts of declining enrollment: ﬁrst, the metric expressed 
as average classes per grade allows consideration of the student experience; and, 
second, the metric expressed as building utilization allows consideration of the 
School District’s stewardship of School District assets.
WHEREAS, the Board recognizes that the impacts of declining enrollment are 
currently felt most acutely at the elementary level, particularly when enrollment at 
individual schools drops below an average of two classes per grade, or approximately 
300 students per school.
1















WHEREAS, in February 2026, projections indicated that if no action were taken, by 2030, 
the district would have 14 elementary schools at or below an average of two classes per 
grade with an overall district building utilization of 65%.
WHEREAS, the Board determined that allowing schools to stay small was not an option 
and that waiting to take action would negatively impact the student experience.
WHEREAS, the Board directed staff to engage with the BVSD community and develop a 
regionally-based plan that would:
●  Maintain/improve learning outcomes for all students;
●  Better distribute students so all schools have the right level of students and
resources to maintain high-quality learning experiences;
●
Stabilize overall enrollment by retaining current students and attracting new 
students to the district;
●  Maximize all eﬃciencies to address ongoing ﬁscal challenges.
WHEREAS, the Boulder Valley School District values the perspectives and lived 
experiences of community members and families and uses their input to inform Board 
decisions; the School District engaged staff, families, advisory groups, municipalities, 
and community members through roundtables, regional meetings, engagement 
sessions, presentations, surveys, and other feedback opportunities during the 
2025-2026 school year.
WHEREAS, the School District reviewed enrollment trends and projections, resident 
student and attendance area data, building utilization, facility capacity and conditions, 
educational programming, student needs, ﬁscal impacts, and community feedback 
and developed a regionally based proposal intended to support resilient schools and 
equitable educational opportunities.
WHEREAS, the Resilient Schools proposal aims to increase the average number of 
elementary classes per grade, improve building utilization, and reinvest recurring 
savings to enhance the student experience by reducing class sizes, providing students 
with more differentiated supports, and offering consistent access to art, music and 
physical education classes.
WHEREAS, the Board affirms the community’s desire to maintain a variety of educational 
models through BVSD focus schools and recognizes the need to better locate these existing 
programs throughout the District.
WHEREAS, the Board recognizes the impacts of school closures and consolidations on 
communities and also recognizes the imperative of responsible stewardship of School 
District resources.
WHEREAS, the Board ﬁnds that the Resilient Schools proposal, presented on August 
25, 2026, and described below best serves the interests of the School District and its
2









students and aligns with the Board's duty to provide high-quality educational 
opportunities and responsibly manage School District resources.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board approves and adopts the 
recommendations of the Resilient Schools proposal with all school actions effective 
July 1, 2027:
For the Broomﬁeld region:
Consolidate Birch Elementary and Kohl Elementary:
●  Close Birch Elementary and merge the school communities in the Kohl 
Elementary building, including relocating Birch’s ICAN program to Kohl 
Elementary;
●  Redraw attendance area boundaries for Kohl and Birch to create one attendance
area.
For the Louisville and Superior region:
Reconﬁgure Monarch PK-8 and Eldorado PK-8:
●  Close the Monarch elementary program and reconﬁgure Monarch PK–8 as a
grades 6–8 middle school;
●  Close the Eldorado middle school program and reconﬁgure Eldorado PK–8 as a
PK–5 elementary school;
●  Redraw elementary attendance area boundaries to divide Monarch K-5’s
attendance area among Fireside, Superior and Eldorado;
●  Redraw middle school attendance area boundaries to combine the Monarch 6-8
and Eldorado 6-8 attendance areas;
●  Eldorado and Monarch will both have AIM and RISE autism programs.
For the Boulder region:
Close Douglass Elementary; Relocate High Peaks Elementary & Community 
Montessori
●  Close Douglass Elementary as a neighborhood elementary school and redraw
attendance boundaries to divide its attendance area among Coal Creek 
Elementary, Eisenhower Elementary, and Heatherwood Elementary schools;
●  Relocate the Douglass ICAN program to Heatherwood Elementary; 
●  Move High Peaks Elementary to the Douglass building; 
●  Close the Community Montessori building and move Community Montessori to 
co-locate with Boulder Community School of Integrated Studies in the Aurora 7 
building.
Consolidate Bear Creek Elementary and Mesa Elementary
●  Close Mesa Elementary and merge the school communities in the Bear Creek 
Elementary building, including relocating Mesa’s RISE program to Bear Creek 
Elementary;
●  Redraw attendance boundaries to combine the Bear Creek, Mesa and dual
attendance areas to create one attendance area;
3



Close Flatirons Elementary
●  Close Flatirons Elementary and divide its attendance area between Foothill
Elementary and Whittier Elementary schools;
●  Redraw Flatirons’ attendance area boundaries to place addresses north of 
Boulder Canyon Dr. into the Foothill attendance area and south of Boulder 
Canyon Dr. into the Whittier attendance area; 
●  Relocate the Flatirons’ RISE program to Whittier; 
●  Adjust Whittier’s bell schedule to accommodate transportation from mountain
communities.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board directs the Superintendent to take the 
necessary steps to assist staff, students, and families in the affected schools in 
transitioning to other schools and other positions in accordance with negotiated 
agreements, state law, Board Policy and the following requirements:
●
Implement Policy JECC-R for the 2027-2028 school year such that:
○  Applications for Choice Enrollment are due by December 18, 2026;
○
In-district students enrolled as of September 2026 and who would 
have continued in the 2027-2028 school year at any of the schools 
being closed or relocated by this Resolution who wish to participate in 
the Choice Enrollment lottery instead of attending their neighborhood 
school or relocated focus school will receive ﬁrst priority in the lottery 
to a non-charter BVSD school.
○  Out-of-district students enrolled as of September 2026 and who would 
have continued in the 2027-2028 school year at any of the schools 
being closed by this resolution must participate in the Choice 
Enrollment lottery to continue enrollment in BVSD and will receive ﬁrst 
priority in the lottery to a non-charter BVSD school.
●
Identify speciﬁc preschool locations for the 2027-2028 school year by October 
1st; and,
●  School Age Care (SAC) will be provided at each of the receiving schools, and 
BVSD will work to provide available slots that are reﬂective of the expanding 
school populations; students who are currently enrolled in a SAC program at a 
closing school will receive returning student status in the spring lottery.
●  Determine the routes for school bus transportation and the points at which
students shall be received and delivered in accordance with Policies EEA and 
EEAA.
4












Approved and adopted this ___ day of September, 2026.
Attest:
Nicole Rajpal, President
By: _______________________________________
_______________________________________ 
Laura Shafer, Secretary
5


























